README.md, before:


<img src="https://github.com/streamblocks/streamblocks-vscode/doc/streamblocks-logo.png" align="right"
     alt="StreamBlocks Logo" width="120" height="94">
# CAL Actor Language support plug-in for Visual Studio Code

This reposiotry bundles a [Xtext][1]-based Language Server for CAL Actor language and multiple extensions to support various code editors ([Visual Studio Code][2], [Eclipse Theia][3], [Eclipse IDE][4] at the moment).

All extensions communicate with the server via Microsoft [Language Server Protocol][5] (LSP).

## Repository Structure

The repository contains multiple projects:
- `xtext-language-server/` - Xtext Language Server multi-project that consists of:
    - `streamblocks.cal` - a sub-project that defines CAL language *syntax* and *semantics*
    - `streamblocks.cal.ide` - a sub-project that contains specific *customizations* for Language Server
- `extensions/`
    - `vscode` - an extension project for *VS Code*
    - `theia` - an extension project for *Eclipse Theia*
    - `eclipse` - a plug-in project for *Eclipse IDE*

Also there is a `workspace/` directory that contains code samples written in CAL and is used as a editor's starting point.

## Building

Before we can go into details how to build each project, it is important to specify dependencies needed for successful project build.

### Dependencies
- `Java` - installed Java 11+ JDK
- `code` - installed Visual Studio Code (and on path for automated Gradle IDE launch task - *more on that later*)
- `eclipse` - installed Eclipse IDE (only for its plugin)

### Xtext Language Server

To build the language server, just run *default* Gradle task for building the project:

#### For Linux

```
$ ./gradlew build
```

#### For Windows

```
> ./gradlew.bat build
```

The build consist of compiling Xtext project, packing the project as Uber JAR (Gradle [Shadow][6] Plug-in) and transfering the library to extensions (to be used in *standalone* case).

### VS Code Extension

To just build and package the extension, you can run dedicated Gradle task:

#### For Linux

```
$ ./gradlew packageExtension
```

#### For Windows

```
> ./gradlew.bat packageExtension
```

It is also possible to automatically launch pre-configured Visual Studio Code editor with installed plug-in via another Gradle task:

> *Note: Make sure that `code` command is registerd on **path***

#### For Linux

```
$ ./gradlew launchCode
```

#### For Windows

```
> ./gradlew.bat launchCode
```
 
The launched editor starts in `workspace/` directory and automatically boots the language server in backgroud ready to be used. 

#### Extension configuration

All configuration options for this extention can be found in the *Settings* section **Extensions / CAL (StreamBlocks)**.

To specify type of the connection with the language server use ***Language Server: Connection type*** setting. The defualt type is *process io* which runs the server as backgroud process and directly communicates with the editor. Other option is *socket* which enables the editor to connect to remote server via socket.

### Eclipse Theia

To build and launch local Theia server use the dedicated launch script in `extensions\theia` directory:

> *Note: Make sure that `launch.sh` has permission to be executed*

#### For Linux only

```
$ ./launch.sh
```

It copies Visual Studio Code extension and starts the server in `workspace/` directory at `localhost:8080`.

### Eclipse IDE

*TO-DO: Add the description for building Eclipse IDE plug-in*


[1]: https://www.eclipse.org/Xtext/index.html
[2]: https://code.visualstudio.com/
[3]: https://theia-ide.org/
[4]: https://www.eclipse.org/eclipseide/
[5]: https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/
[6]: https://imperceptiblethoughts.com/shadow/

Commit message:

README.md update
Added additional description for launching socket language server.

README.md, after:


<img src="https://github.com/streamblocks/streamblocks-vscode/doc/streamblocks-logo.png" align="right"
     alt="StreamBlocks Logo" width="120" height="94">
# CAL Actor Language support plug-in for Visual Studio Code

This reposiotry bundles a [Xtext][1]-based Language Server for CAL Actor language and multiple extensions to support various code editors ([Visual Studio Code][2], [Eclipse Theia][3], [Eclipse IDE][4] at the moment).

All extensions communicate with the server via Microsoft [Language Server Protocol][5] (LSP).

## Repository Structure

The repository contains multiple projects:
- `xtext-language-server/` - Xtext Language Server multi-project that consists of:
    - `streamblocks.cal` - a sub-project that defines CAL language *syntax* and *semantics*
    - `streamblocks.cal.ide` - a sub-project that contains specific *customizations* for Language Server
- `extensions/`
    - `vscode` - an extension project for *VS Code*
    - `theia` - an extension project for *Eclipse Theia*
    - `eclipse` - a plug-in project for *Eclipse IDE*

Also there is a `workspace/` directory that contains code samples written in CAL and is used as a editor's starting point.

## Building

Before we can go into details how to build each project, it is important to specify dependencies needed for successful project build.

### Dependencies
- `Java` - installed Java 11+ JDK
- `code` - installed Visual Studio Code (and on path for automated Gradle IDE launch task - *more on that later*)
- `eclipse` - installed Eclipse IDE (only for its plugin)

### Xtext Language Server

To build the language server, just run *default* Gradle task for building the project:

#### For Linux

```
$ ./gradlew build
```

#### For Windows

```
> ./gradlew.bat build
```

The build consist of compiling Xtext project, packing the project as Uber JAR (Gradle [Shadow][6] Plug-in) and transfering the library to extensions (to be used in *standalone* case).

Alternative way is to start language server as a remote *socket* server. It can be easily done by running customized Grade task:

#### For Linux

```
$ ./gradlew run [--args="[--host "host address"][-- port "port number"]"]
```

#### For Windows

```
> ./gradlew.bat run [--args="[--host "host address"][-- port "port number"]"]
```

Task starts server application from built-in Xtext launcher class *SocketServerLauncher*. The connection can be configured via command line arguments (passed to Gradle task by `--args` option), namely `--host` for host address and `--port` for specific port (*0.0.0.0:5008* by default).

### VS Code Extension

To just build and package the extension, you can run dedicated Gradle task:

#### For Linux

```
$ ./gradlew packageExtension
```

#### For Windows

```
> ./gradlew.bat packageExtension
```

It is also possible to automatically launch pre-configured Visual Studio Code editor with installed plug-in via another Gradle task:

> *Note: Make sure that `code` command is registerd on **path***

#### For Linux

```
$ ./gradlew launchCode
```

#### For Windows

```
> ./gradlew.bat launchCode
```
 
The launched editor starts in `workspace/` directory and automatically boots the language server in backgroud ready to be used. 

#### Extension configuration

All configuration options for this extention can be found in the *Settings* section **Extensions / CAL (StreamBlocks)**.

To specify type of the connection with the language server use ***Language Server: Connection type*** setting. The defualt type is *process io* which runs the server as backgroud process and directly communicates with the editor. Other option is *socket* which enables the editor to connect to remote server via socket.

### Eclipse Theia

To build and launch local Theia server use the dedicated launch script in `extensions/theia` directory:

> *Note: Make sure that `launch.sh` has permission to be executed*

#### For Linux only

```
$ ./launch.sh
```

It copies Visual Studio Code extension and starts the server in `workspace/` directory at `localhost:8080`.

### Eclipse IDE

*TO-DO: Add the description for building Eclipse IDE plug-in*


[1]: https://www.eclipse.org/Xtext/index.html
[2]: https://code.visualstudio.com/
[3]: https://theia-ide.org/
[4]: https://www.eclipse.org/eclipseide/
[5]: https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/
[6]: https://imperceptiblethoughts.com/shadow/
